
cpuminer-opt-3.1 release notes
--------------i----------------

cpuminer-opt combines the best of minerd (x11), cp3u (quark) and
cpuminer-multi (multi-algo support plus non-kernel related
enhancements). Additional credits to Lucas Jones, elmad, palmd,
djm34, pooler, Jeff Garzik, Wolf0 and probably others.

The core of cpuminer-opt remains cpuminer-multi and is the base for
this fork.

All of the code is believed to be open and free. If anyone has a
claim to any of it post your case in the Bitcoin Talk forum,
link below.

Features
--------

V3.1 introduces a new mining engine called algo_gate. This fetaure
is not visible to the users excetp for the additional 5% performance
increase in all algos. This feature is of interest mostly to
developpers.

cpuminer provides accelerated hashing on AES-NI capable CPUs in
x11, x13, x14, x15, quark & qubit algorithms. It also currently
provides acceleration for SSE2 capable CPUs on quark and qubit
algorithms only. Other algorithms are available but unchanged from
cpuminer-multi-1.2pre and in various states of functionality.
V3.0 pprovides improved hash rates for many algos. See the 
release annoucent for details.

Requirements
------------

A 64 bit CPU with SSE2 support and any of the popular 64 bit
Linux distributions. Standard development tools, libcurl-devel,
the preferred SSL development package of your distribution.

Limitations
-----------

v3.0 is source code only that can be compiled on Linux.
Windows support is not yet available, but planned.

Compiling
---------

After unpacking the tarball change ito the cpuminer directory and
execute these commands. Note that O3 is actually the upper case
letter O.

./autogen.sh 
./configure CFLAGS="-O3 -march=native" --with-crypto --with-curl
make

libcurl-devel and an development packages are required to be
installed to build this application and are available in most
Linux repositories.

To compile on older CPUs without AES_NI support use the following
CFLAGS options: "-O3 -march=native -DNO_AES_NI"

Bugs
----

Users are encouraged to post their bug reports on the Bitcoin Talk
forum at:

https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1326803.0

Donations
---------

I do not do this for money but I have a donation address if users
are so inclined.

bitcoin:12tdvfF7KmAsihBXQXynT6E6th2c2pByTT?label=donations

Happy mining!

